# Reference Taxonomy Working Group Minutes

Meeting: Reference taxonomy meeting Location: Internet 26/01/2021

## Attendees coverage
- ENISA
- Banco Santander - Cyber Incident Management
- BSI/CERT-BUND
- CERT-AT
- CERT-PT
- CIRCL
- CSIRT.UMINHO
- Cudeso.be and NVISO MDR/CSIRT
- Govcert.lu
- INCIBE-CERT
- LITNET CERT
- PWC
- RCTS CERT (Portugal)
- RESTENA
- SWITCH-CERT
- Taltech-CSIRT
- Terna-CERT
- Thales CERT
- TERNA-CERT
- UK MOD, Liasion to ISO/IEC


## Agenda
- WG members status update
- Allocation of WG tasks
- Presentation from Terna
- Presentation on RSIT ATT&CK
- Review of pull requests
- Results of data collection
- Discussion on definitions of incidents and events
- Any Other Business

Asks participants for any points to be added to the agenda.
# Round of intro

## WG members status update
- INCIBE-CERT   no special changes in taxonomy for INCIBE-CERT
- CERT-BUND   using taxonomy for automated reporting
- CERT.PT  taxonomy is translated in Portuguese and it is used since January 2020. Comments that he is here to see if it is feasible to have the translation to GitHub repository. The WG in PT is already in the map of ENISA website, using the RSIT taxonomy.
- Terna-CERT preparing to use taxonomy
- CIRCL no updates for CIRCL on RSIT
- LITNET-CERT RSIT is used in RTIR and taxonomy is translated.
- CERT-AT  taxonomy in reports etc. to the maximum level.
- Thales-CERT   RSIT is planned to be used soon in RTIR and in the next steps, for SOCs.
- SWITCH-CERT  the taxonomy is being used for a year and now SWITCH-CERT has the first time statistics for RSIT.
- GOVCERT-LU using the taxonomy since June of 2020 and while it was difficult at first, it went well. They want to see if definitions and events can be figured out.
- CIRCL re:translation to GitHub repository - translation is a good idea, but asks how the machine tags could be properly done.
- CERT-AT  machine tags should stay identical for comparability. translating machine tags would be against the intention of the taxonomy.
- CIRCL  nothing is blocking to have translation for each value within the existing taxonomy.
- CERT-AT  proposes to add this to the Agenda.
- CSIRT UMINHO  machine tags should most likely be universal. This is why he suggests this to be added on the agenda, in order to further brainstorm. Adds that the link for their taxonomy translation is based on the 1001 version of the https://www.redecsirt.pt/files/RNCSIRT_Taxonomia_v3.0.pdf.
- CERT-AT   pull request to the repository adding the link.
- RESTENA asks in chat if ransomware could also be added in fraud, due to the money part.
- CERT-AT  replies that there were discussions on ransomware in the past. In his opinion incidents are not to be classified by the capabilities of a the malware, which is encryption/data inaccessibility.

# Allocation of wg tasks
- ENISA  moves to the Working Group activities. Explains the proposals to divide the activities of the WG and asks for volunteers on any of the proposals.
- CERT-AT offers for taxonomy versioning.
- CSIRT.UMINHO also offers to help on the WG.

# Presentation from Terna
ENISA  moves to the Terna-CERT presentation and gives floor
Terna-CERT to pull proposed changes for discussion.
Will share presentation to mailing list, with a recap email as well.

# Actions from previous meeting
- CERT-AT  proposes to create a single pull request for each of the requests, since it will be easier to manage changes this way.
- PWC proposes in chat to discuss the renaming of "examples" to "family". Agrees that "examples" is perhaps not quite right. However, he would be in favour of renaming "Classification" to "Category" and "Examples" to "Sub-Category" which is a clearer reflection of what they are.
- CERT-AT  comments that the history is that the first column is fixed and the second one is more open for discussion.
- CERT-BUND  adds in chat that the overall goal of every change should be to clarify the scheme. In consequence the introduction of new vagueness should be prevented
- CIRCL  comments in chat that there is an update in the MISP taxonomy machine tag to support translation as additional content, while keeping the values as is. RSIT can act as an example in misp-taxonomies.
- CERT-AT  adds in chat that IntelMQ calls the first column "Taxonomy" (because the RSIT in the past only had one standardized column), second is "type" and the third is "identifier" (e.g. protocol/application/malware name).

# Presentation on RSIT ATT&CK
ENISA  gives floor to Cudeso.be and NVISO MDR/CSIRT who presents the RSIT ATT&CK.
- CIRCL   asks if multiple techniques can be added.
- Cudeso.be and NVISO MDR/CSIRT replies that new techniques can be added. If they are split up they can be added to the taxonomy, it is not one-on-one. A field that can be added - is the date to describe when the case was first seen. Also notes that it would be good if more people reviewed this and provide more input, in order to get high quality outcome, since this is a proof of case.
- PWc offers to help with the MITE ATT&CK mapping.

# Review of pull requests
ENISA proposes to remove the ENISA logo since this is the product of a TF-CSIRT official working group and not an ENISA deliverable.
Explains that ENISA provides the tools and support however this is an official TF-CSIRT community project. Also asks how this pull should be handled.
Group agrees to remove the logo on a separate pull.

## Merge pull request 89

CSIRT.UMINHO explains that the idea was not to have the document linked rather than having the table translated. Machine tax should be global, but unsure if GitHub allows to do this without links.
CIRCL adds that the plan is to have a metadata field to address this in order to have the translations. In this way, tools can use it and then show a different translation according to the defined locale.
CSIRT.UMINHO agrees that this would be an elegant solution and adds that for now, the file can be deleted and the link can be added.

## Merge pull request 87
ENISA comments that in preparation of the meeting a survey was sent and 2 additional input were received. Asks participants if there are any other topics to discuss on github.  Presents input from INCIBE-CIRT and CSIRT.UMINHO and ENISA.
CSIRT.UMINHO comments on defining an incident and separating it from events.
CIRCL  proposes a definition from https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-E.409-200405-I/en.
GOVCERT-LU  comments that these are cases that a case could be an event, incident and security incident at the same time. Gives the example of being unsure if someone clicked on a spam link.
CSIRT.UMINHO comments that in the old taxonomy, vulnerabilities were not classified as incidents unless they were exploited. On the RSIT taxonomy there are issues like misconfigs that are classified as incidents. These issues should be defined in order to simplify things.
ENISA  proposes that more structured input can be collected and then comeback to this.

## Survey
Will open the possibility to reply to survey again in order to get more feedback (ACTION).
CSIRT.UMINHO comments that people perhaps could bring the definitions used in there countries, such contributions could help.
RSIT members to provide definitions of event and incident (also in respect of NISD transposition) (ACTION)
INCIBE-CERT proposes to discuss this on the mailing list before the next meeting.

## Data collection
ENISA proposes to discuss the data collection. Proposes the input given before the meeting: 5 replies from diverse entities, but the categories used are obvious. Proposes to run it again before the next meeting in order to receive more input.
CERT-AT Wagner proposes to define the kind of constituency â€“CERTvsSOC- in the survey.
Group agrees to continue discussions on the mailing list and take it from there.


# Actions from this TF-CSIRT Virtual meeting
- open the possibility to reply to survey again in order to get more feedback
- RSIT members to provide definitions of event and incident (also in respect of NISD transposition)

Closure of the meeting.
