# Reference Taxonomy Working Group Minutes

Meeting: Reference taxonomy meeting Location: Cyprus Date: 15/09/19
## Meeting overview
- status update 
- RSIT @ FIRST 
	- Presentation
	- BoF
- Actions from last meeting

# Review of the actions:
## Actions from last meeting


# Actions for this meeting

## Update of terms in 2nd column and description of Abusive Content #42
agreed in LUX: Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE) 

## multiple values management on the mailing list by 29/03
Multiple value weight 1- 10 
Weight and subweight
Solved since it is at the discretion of the team.
RSIT can give recommendation and good practices
actions: proposal and examples on multiple values to be shared with the mailing list and be ready fro Cyprus.

## add other/unknown:
- [x] Merge pull request #46 from sebix/other-unknown

## add other/unknown:
- [x] Merge pull request #46 from sebix/other-unknown

## American vs. British English
to be discussed on ML
  
## Open topics for Cyprus (including action post LUX)
- [ ] Obsolete values - How do we deal with obsolete value
- [ ] Pivot mapping - example
- [ ] review  "Remove malware-dga-domain as agreed in Vilnius meeting" #32 https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/pull/32 
- [ ] review  chg: [machine-tag] version MUST be an unsigned integer  and  Spit versioning into to fields #52 
- [ ] review Some descriptions #47
- [ ] review other/other -> other/unclassified #55
- [ ] review  Add system-compromise #59 - 
- [ ] This branch has conflicts that must be resolved
- [ ]a dd (data) leak under information content security #61 
- [ ] taxonomy usage 
- [ ] translated versions

# Next steps

ENISA to

- [ ] Prepare minutes
- [ ] Coordinate request for update on http://www.ecsirt.net/
- [ ] Update GitHub


ALL WG to
- [ ] submit input on the ML and GitHub at least one month before next physical meeting to allow discussion 
- [ ] Discuss the open issues and pull requests https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/issues?q=is%3Aopen  on the mailing and submit input at least one month before the next meeting 
- [ ] Pull changes by individual line
- [ ] Prepare accordingly for next meeting
- [ ] Complement the use cases with additional info 
- [ ] Add link to the Statistics based on the RSIT WG taxonomy in https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/blob/master/Documentation/Dependencies%20and%20tool%20mapping.md 
