# Reference Taxonomy Working Group Minutes

Meeting: Reference taxonomy meeting Location: Tallinn Date: 23/01/2019
## Meeting overview
- Actions from last meeting
- Actions for this meeting
- Other pending actions
- Review pulled changes
- Additional items
- RSIT WG next meetings and outreach

# Review of the actions:
## Actions from last meeting

ENISA to 
- [x] Prepare minutes
- [x] Prepare for Tallinn meeting
- [x] Change name from TF to WG
- [x] Create a list of taxonomy users on the GitHub
- [x] Coordinate CC discussion and discuss proposed CC solutions to Don Stikvoort
- [x] Update GitHub

CERT-Bund to
- [x] Pull request deletion for Malware DGA Domain so we can delete from the current version ASAP.
- [x] Create a new pull request for Malware DGA Domain so that WG can discuss it before Tallinn meeting.  

All WG
- [x] Pull changes by individual line
- [x] Prepare accordingly for Tallinn meeting

# Actions for this meeting

ALL WG to
- [ ] Discuss proposed  “Availability/Misconfiguration”  https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/pull/24     
- [ ] Finalize the DGA domain in Tallinn
- [ ] Finalize Acknowledgement of Jimmy Arvidsson, Don Stikvoort and eCSIRT.net on the Github https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/pull/26 
- [ ] Formalize Vilnius Version with CC0

# Review pulled changes

## Availability/Misconfiguration
Discuss proposed  “Availability/Misconfiguration” https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/pull/24/files    
  
    Approved– see thread there.

## DGA domain
See thread at  https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/pull/32 
to be continued 

### Action:
https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/pull/32

## Finalize Acknowledgement of Jimmy Arvidsson, Don Stikvoort and eCSIRT.net on the Github https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/pull/26 
    Approved– see thread there.

## Formalize Vilnius Version with CC0
decided for string and created license file

## CERT.at Version numbering

ALL decided for string and created license file

# Additional items discussed

## Multiple value management
how to use and which cases make sense(i.e. Multiuple tags in MSIP and IntelMQ)
 See thread at https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/issues/34

### Actions
CERT.at	GOVERCERTLU and CESNET will submit ideas for multiple values management on the mailing list by 29/03
Discussion on the mailing and proposal for next meeting. Add document.

## http://www.ecsirt.net/ reference 
ask owner to add pointer to RSIT WG 

### Actions
ENISA Will talk to owner 

## How to classify SEO spam injections/Search Engine Ranking Hacks? #31 

 See thread at https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/issues/31

### Actions
WG to add guidance on how to classify multiple values and then count stats for multiple values. These will be topics of the first examples


## Add a predicate to tag information if this is part of an exercise #28 
 See thread at https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/issues/28 
Closed 

# RSIT WG next meetings and outreach
## Aim and Objectives of the RSIT WG
- [x] Develop Reference Document (Classifications, incident types or examples, and definition) using eCSIRT.net as a starting point.
- [x] Define and develop an Update and Versioning Mechanism
- [x] Host reference document
- [x] Organise regular physical meetings with the stakeholders
- [ ] In the 2nd phase broader working group with non-European teams (FIRST) to achieve global consensus on incident reference taxonomy

## Actions
WG will discuss last point in Luxembourg

# Next steps

ENISA to

- [ ] Prepare minutes
- [ ] Prepare for LUX meeting
- [ ] Create a Pivot Mapping section
- [ ] Coordinate request for update on http://www.ecsirt.net/
- [ ] Update GitHub

CERT.at	GOVERCERTLU and CESNET to
- [ ] submit proposal for multiple values management on the mailing list by 29/03

CESNET CERT-BUND and CERT.at to
- [ ] submit ideas for characterizatioon of DGA by 29/03

ALL WG to
- [ ] submit input on the ML and GitHub at least one month before next physical meeting to allow discussion 
- [ ] Discuss the open issues and pull requests https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/issues?q=is%3Aopen  on the mailing and submit input at least one month before the next meeting 
- [ ] Pull changes by individual line
- [ ] Prepare accordingly for LUX meeting
- [ ] Complement the use cases with additional info 
- [ ] Add link to the Statistics based on the RSIT WG taxonomy in https://github.com/enisaeu/Reference-Security-Incident-Taxonomy-Task-Force/blob/master/Documentation/Dependencies%20and%20tool%20mapping.md 
- [ ] Refer RSIT in the annual report


